[MDS] Add security analytics, alerting, feature anaywhere in the multiple data source document (#7328)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/management/multi-data-sources.md

  - /dashboards/discover/multi-data-sources/
---

# Configuring and using multiple data sources in OpenSearch Dashboards

You can ingest, process, and analyze data from multiple data sources in OpenSearch Dashboards. You configure the data sources under **Dashboards Management** > **Data sources**. This interface is shown in the following image.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/data_sources_management.png" alt="Dashboards Management data sources main screen" width="700">

## Getting started

The following tutorial guides you through configuring and using multiple data sources in OpenSearch Dashboards.

> The following features are not supported when using multiple data sources: timeline visualization types and `gantt-chart` plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following features are not supported when using multiple data sources: timeline visualization types and the `gantt-chart` plugin.
```

Introduced 2.13
{: .label .label-purple }

> A feature flag in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file allows you to hide the local cluster option within the `data_source` plugin. This option hides the local cluster from the data source dropdown menu and index creation page, which is ideal for environments with or without a local OpenSearch cluster. The following example setting, shown in a 20-second demo, hides the local cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A feature flag in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file allows you to hide the local cluster option within the `data_source` plugin. This option hides the local cluster from the data source dropdown menu and index creation page, which is ideal for environments with or without a local OpenSearch cluster. The following example setting, shown in a 20-second demo, hides the local cluster:
```

````

> # hide local cluster in the data source dropdown and index pattern creation page.

Author: Here is only the formatting change, not new content, I think safe to maintain

````

The following demo shows this process.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/multidata-hide-show-auth.gif" alt="Multiple data sources hide and show authentication">{: .img-fluid}

## Showing or hiding the local cluster
Introduced 2.13
{: .label .label-purple }

A feature flag in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file allows you to hide the local cluster option within the `data_source` plugin. This option hides the local cluster from the data source dropdown menu and index creation page, which is ideal for environments with or without a local OpenSearch cluster. The following example setting, shown in a 20-second demo, hides the local cluster:

````
# hide local cluster in the data source dropdown and index pattern creation page.
data_source.hideLocalCluster: true
````

The following demo shows this process.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/multidata-hide-localcluster.gif" alt="Multiple data sources hide local cluster">{: .img-fluid}

---

## Using multiple data sources with external dashboards plugins
Introduced 2.14
{: .label .label-purple}

The following plugins now support multiple data sources.

### Index management

> When you have set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view view and select data sources and their associated indexes directly from the interface. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view and select data sources and their associated indexes directly from the interface: 
```

1. Navigate to **Management** > **Index Management** under the main menu.
2. Select **Indexes** from the sidebar menu and then select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon on the upper-right menu bar.

> 3. Choose the appropirate data source from the dropdown and then choose the appropriate index from those listed. By default, the indexes from your default data source are displayed. You can choose any connected data source to view its corresponding indexes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Choose the appropriate data source from the dropdown menu and then choose the appropriate index from the list. By default, the indexes from your default data source are displayed. You can choose any connected data source to view its corresponding indexes.
```

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/ism_mds1.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in ISM list page"/>

> To perform operations on a specific index within a data source, select the individual index from the list. To create a new index, select the **Create Index** button, which opens a form. Fill in the required information and select the **Create** button. The index is created within the selected data source. The following GIF illustrates these steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform operations on a specific index within a data source, select the individual index from the list. To create a new index, select the **Create Index** button, which opens a form. Enter the required information and select the **Create** button. The index is created within the selected data source. The following GIF illustrates these steps.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/ism_mds2.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in ISM create page"/>

### Anomaly detection

> When you have set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can create or view detectors associated with a data source. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can create or view detectors associated with a data source: 
```

1. Navigate to **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Anomaly Detection** under the main menu.
2. Select the database icon on the upper-right menu bar to view a list of connected data sources.

> 3. Select a data source to view a list of associated detectors. If the selected data source does not have detectors, the **Create detector** button appears under the upper-right menu bar. See [Creating anomaly detectors]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/ad/dashboards-anomaly-detection/#creating-anomaly-detectors) for steps on creating detectors through the interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select a data source to view a list of associated detectors. If the selected data source does not have detectors, then the **Create detector** button appears under the upper-right menu bar. See [Creating anomaly detectors]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/ad/dashboards-anomaly-detection/#creating-anomaly-detectors) for instructions on creating detectors through the interface.
```

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/ad_mds1.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Anomaly Detection dashboard page"/>

> You can edit the data source's associated detectors through the **Detectors** tab under the left side bar. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can edit the data source's associated detectors on the **Detectors** tab under the left side bar. 
```

1. Select **Detectors** and then select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon on the upper-right menu bar.

> 2. From the dropdown, select the appropriate data source. A list of associated detecotrs appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. From the dropdown menu, select the appropriate data source. A list of associated detectors appears.
```

> 3. Choose a detector from the list and then select **Actions** and then the appropriate edit option from the dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Choose a detector from the list, select **Actions**, and then choose the appropriate edit option from the dropdown menu.
```

4. Enter the applicable settings and configuration details.  

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/ad_mds2.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Anomaly Detection detector page"/>

### Security

> When you have set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view and manage roles for each connected data source. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view and manage roles for each connected data source: 
```

1. Navigate to **Management** > **Security** under the main menu. 

> 2. Select **Roles** under the left sidebar menu and then select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon on the upper-right menu bar. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Roles** from the left sidebar menu and then select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon on the upper-right menu bar. 
```

> 3. From the dropdown, select the appropriate data source and then select the **Create role** button to add a new role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. From the dropdown menu, select the appropriate data source and then select the **Create role** button to add a new role.
```

> 4. Enter the required congiguration information and select the **Create** button to save. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enter the required configuration information and select the **Create** button to save. 
```

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/security_mds1.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Security plugin"/>

### Maps

> When you set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view all available data sources and the ones currently used as layers in a map:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view all available data sources, including the ones currently used as layers, in a map:
```

> When you have set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view all available data sources and the ones currently used as layers in a map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view all available data sources and the ones currently used as layers in a map:
```

> When you have set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view all available data sources and the ones currently used as layers in a map.

Reviewer: "you can view all available data sources, including the ones currently used as layers, in a map"?

1. Navigate to **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Maps** under the main menu.

> 2. From the dropdown, select the appropriate data source to edit or create an associated map layer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. From the dropdown menu, select the appropriate data source to edit or create an associated map layer:
```

>   - Edit a map layer by selecting a map layer from the **Layers** dropdown. From the pop-up window, view the settings and edit as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Edit a map layer by selecting one from the **Layers** dropdown menu. In the pop-up window, view the settings and edit them as needed.
```

>   - Add a new layer by selecting the **Add layer** button under the dropwdown and then selecting **Documents** from the pop-up window. Anoter pop-up window appears on the right side. Enter the required information under the **Data** tab. Note that the data source name is prefixed to the index pattern name. The **Style** and **Settings** tabs are optional information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Add a new layer by selecting the **Add layer** button under the dropdown and then selecting **Documents** from the pop-up window. Anoter pop-up window appears on the right side. Enter the required information under the **Data** tab. Note that the data source name is prefixed to the index pattern name. The **Style** and **Settings** tabs are optional information.
```

>   - Add a new layer by selecting the **Add layer** button under the dropdown and then selecting **Documents** from the pop-up window. Another pop-up window appears on the right side. Enter the required information under the **Data** tab. Note that the data source name is prefixed to the index pattern name. The **Style** and **Settings** tabs are optional information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add a new layer by selecting the **Add layer** button from the dropdown menu and then selecting **Documents** in the pop-up window. Another pop-up window appears on the right. Enter the required information on the **Data** tab. Note that the data source name is prefixed to the index pattern name. The **Style** and **Settings** tabs include optional information.
```

  - Select **Update** to save the settings.

> 3. Select the **Save** button in the menu bar to save the edited or new layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the **Save** button on the menu bar to save the edited or new layer.
```

> 4. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon in the upper-right menu bar to verify that the new data source is listed in the dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon on the upper-right menu bar to verify that the new data source is listed in the dropdown menu.
```

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/maps_mds1.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Maps plugin"/>

### Machine learning

> When you have set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view and manage machine learning models from different connected data sources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view and manage machine learning models from different connected data sources: 
```

1. Navigate to **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Machine Learning** under the main menu. 

> 2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown. A list of models associated with the selected data source is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown menu. A list of models associated with the selected data source is displayed.
```

> 3. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/inspect-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="inspect icon"/>{:/} icon to the right of a listed model to view the model's configuration details for that data source.

Reviewer: "that data source => "the selected data source"?

> 3. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/inspect-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="inspect icon"/>{:/} icon to the right of a listed model to view the model's configuration details for that data source.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/inspect-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="inspect icon"/>{:/} icon to the right of a listed model to view the model's configuration details for the selected data source.
```

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/ml_mds1.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Machine Learning Plugin"/>

### Notifications

> When you have set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can you can view and manage notification channels for different data sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view and manage notification channels for different data sources:
```

1. Navigate to **Management** > **Notifications** under the main menu.

> 2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown. A list of channels associated with the selected data source is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown menu. A list of channels associated with the selected data source is displayed.
```

3. Choose a channel from the list to view or manage its settings. 

>   - Edit the channel's settings by selececting the **Actions** button and choosing the **Edit** option. Enter the required information in the **Edit channel** panel and then choose **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Edit the channel's settings by selecting the **Actions** button and choosing the **Edit** option. Enter the required information in the **Edit channel** panel and then choose **Save**.
```

>   - Send a test message to the channel by selecting the **Send test message** button on the **Edit channel** window. Alternatively, you can select the **Actions** button on the channel details window and then choose the **Send test message** option from the dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Send a test message to the channel by selecting the **Send test message** button in the **Edit channel** window. Alternatively, you can select the **Actions** button in the channel details window and then choose the **Send test message** option from the dropdown menu.
```

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/notification_mds1.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Notification plugin"/>

### Search relevance

> When you have set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can you can compare search results across indexes from different data sources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can compare search results across indexes from different data sources: 
```

1. Navigate to **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Search Relevance** under the main menu.

> 2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown. A list of available data sources is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown menu. A list of available data sources is displayed.
```

> 3. Under **Query 1**, select a data source and an index, and then under **Query 2**, select a data source and an index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Under both **Query 1** and **Query 2**, select a data source and an index.
```

> 4. Select the **Search** button to run the queries. The query results are displayed in their respective results panel. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select the **Search** button to run the queries. The query results are displayed in their respective results panels. 
```

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/searchrelevance_mds1.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Search Relevance plugin"/>

### Security analytics
Introduced 2.15
{: .label .label-purple}

> When you have set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view and manage security analytics resources, such as detection rules, across multiple connected data sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can view and manage security analytics resources, such as detection rules, across multiple connected data sources:
```

1. Navigate to **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Security analytics** under the main menu.

> 2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown menu.
```

> 3. Select **Dectectors** > **Detection rules** from the left-side navigation menu. A list of detection rules is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Dectectors** > **Detection rules** from the navigation menu on the left. A list of detection rules is displayed.
```

> 4. Select a rule to open the details pop-up window.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Select a rule to open a pop-up window containing more information about that rule.
```

> 4. Select a rule to open the details pop-up window.

Reviewer: If "details" is the name of the pop-up window, then it should be formatted as such. If it is not, we should say something like "Select a rule to open a pop-up window containing more information about that rule."

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_sa_detection_rules_view.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Security analytics list page"/>

1. Navigate to **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Security analytics** under the main menu.

> 2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown menu.
```

> 3. Select **Dectectors** > **Detection rules** from the left-side navigation menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Dectectors** > **Detection rules** from the navigation menu on the left.
```

4. Select the **Create detection rule** button on the upper right and then enter the required configuration details in the **Create detection rule** window. 
5. Select the **Create detection rule** button on the lower right to save the rule. The rule is now associated with the data source.

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_sa_detection_rules_create.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Security analytics create page"/>

### Alerting
Introduced 2.15
{: .label .label-purple }

> When you have set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can you can view and manage alerting monitors across multiple connected data sources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set `data_source.enabled:true`, you can you can view and manage alerting monitors across multiple connected data sources: 
```

1. Navigate to **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Alerting** under the main menu.

> 2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown. A list of associated monitors is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/icons/database-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="database icon"/>{:/} icon and choose a data source from the dropdown menu. A list of associated monitors is displayed.
```

3. Select a monitor to view its details.

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_monitor_view.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Alerting list page"/>

To create a new monitor, select **Create monitor**. Fill out the form and select **Create**. The monitor is created within the selected data source.

#### Managing alerting monitors from within the Dashboards application

> To manage the associated monitors for a data source from within **Dashboards**: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage data source monitors from within **Dashboards**: 
```

> 1. Navigate to the **Dashboards** application under the main menu and then select a dashboard from those listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Dashboards** application under the main menu and then select a dashboard from the list.
```

> 2. From the dashboard, select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/ellipsis-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="ellipsis icon"/>{:/} icon to open the **Options** dropdown and choose **Alerting**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. From the dashboard, select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/ellipsis-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="ellipsis icon"/>{:/} icon to open the **Options** dropdown menu and then choose **Alerting**.
```

> 4. From the **Alerting** dropdown, choose **Associated monitors** to open the configuration window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. From the **Alerting** dropdown menu, choose **Associated monitors** to open the configuration window.
```

5. Select a monitor from the list to view or edit its details.

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_feature_anywhere_view_alerting.gif" alt="Multiple data sources with Feature anywhere associated monitor"/>

To associate a monitor with a data source: 

> 1. Navigate to the **Dashboards** application under the main menu and then select a dashboard from those listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Dashboards** application under the main menu and then select a dashboard from the list.
```

> 2. From the dashboard, select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/ellipsis-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="ellipsis icon"/>{:/} icon to open the **Options** dropdown and choose **Alerting**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. From the dashboard, select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/ellipsis-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="ellipsis icon"/>{:/} icon to open the **Options** dropdown menu and then choose **Alerting**.
```

> 3. From the **Alerting** dropdown, choose **Add alerting monitor** to open the configuration window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. From the **Alerting** dropdown menu, choose **Add alerting monitor** to open the configuration window.
```

4. Enter the configuration information and then select the **Create monitor** button. The monitor is now associated with the data source.  

The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_feature_anywhere_create_alerting.gif" alt="Multiple data sources with Feature anywhere add associated monitor"/>

---

## Next steps

> After configuring multiple data sources, you can analyze the data from each source. Refer to the following resources for more information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After configuring multiple data sources, you can analyze the data from each source. See the following resources for more information:
```

### Search relevance

> When the data source feature is enabled, you can navigate to **Search Relevance** under the **OpenSearch Plugins** menu. On the navigation bar on the upper right, you can view all available data sources. To compare search results between indexes from different data sources, first select a data source and an index for **Query 1**, and then select a data source and an index for **Query 2**. Select **Search** to run the queries. The following GIF illustrates these steps.

Reviewer 3: @yujin-emma To view the available data sources, the user selects the database icon, correct?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the data source feature is enabled, you can navigate to **Search Relevance** under the **OpenSearch Plugins** menu. On the navigation bar on the upper right, select the data source icon to view all available data sources. 

To compare search results between indexes from different data sources, first select a data source and an index for **Query 1**, and then select a data source and an index for **Query 2**. Select **Search** to run the queries. 

The following GIF illustrates these steps.
```

> <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/searchrelevance_mds1.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Search Relevance plugin"/>

Reviewer 3: Is this GIF uploaded to this PR?

### Security analytics

> When the data source feature is enabled, you can navigate to **Security analytics** under the **Opensearch Plugins** menu. Using detection rules as an example, you can view all connected data sources and select a specific one from the navigation bar on the upper right. By default, the detection rules from the designated default data source are displayed. However, you can select any connected data source to view its corresponding detection rules. The following GIF illustrates these steps.

Author: yes

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_sa_detection_rules_view.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Security analytics list page"/>

To create a new detection rule, select the **Create detection rule** button, which opens a form. Fill in the required information and select the **Create detection rule** button. The detection rule is created within the selected data source. The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_sa_detection_rules_create.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Security analytics create page"/>

### Alerting

> When the data source feature is enabled, you can navigate to **Alerting** under the **OpenSearch Plugins** menu. Using monitors as an example, you can view all connected data sources and select a specific one from the navigation bar on the upper right. By default, the monitors from the designated default data source are displayed. However, you can select any connected data source to view its corresponding monitors. The following GIF illustrates these steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the data source feature is enabled, you can navigate to **Alerting** under the **Opensearch Plugins** menu and view all connected data sources. In the data source view, the default data source and its corresponding detection rules are displayed. However, you can select any connected data source to view its corresponding detection rules from the **Data sources** dropdown. The following GIF illustrates these steps using detection rules.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_monitor_view.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Alerting list page"/>

To create a new monitor, select the **Create monitor** button, which opens a form. Fill in the required information and select the **Create** button. The monitor is created within the selected data source.

### Feature anywhere

> When the data source feature is enabled, you can navigate to **Dashboards** under the **OpenSearch Dashboards** menu. Select a dashboard from the list, click the option button of the dashboads, then click on **Alerting** -> **Associated monitors**. Then you can see the associated monitors with the selected dashboard. The following GIF illustrates these steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the data source feature is enabled, you can navigate to **Dashboards** under the **OpenSearch Dashboards** menu. Select a dashboard from the list, select the **Option** button on the dashboard. Then, select  **Alerting** > **Associated monitors**. You should see the associated monitors for the selected dashboard. The following GIF illustrates these steps.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_feature_anywhere_view_alerting.gif" alt="Multiple data sources with Feature anywhere associated monitor"/>

> To add new alerting monitor for that dashboard, select the option button, which opens a flyout. Fill in the required information and select the **Create monitor** button. The alerting monitor is created within the selected data source.The following GIF illustrates these steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add new alerting monitor for that dashboard, select the **Option** button. Fill in the required information and select the **Create monitor** button. The alerting monitor is created within the selected data source.The following GIF illustrates these steps.
```

> <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_feature_anywhere_create_alerting.gif" alt="Multiple data sources with Feature anywhere add associated monitor"/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_feature_anywhere_create_alerting.gif" alt="Multiple data sources with Feature anywhere add associated monitor"/>

```

### Search relevance

When the data source feature is enabled, you can navigate to **Search Relevance** under the **OpenSearch Plugins** menu. On the navigation bar on the upper right, you can view all available data sources. To compare search results between indexes from different data sources, first select a data source and an index for **Query 1**, and then select a data source and an index for **Query 2**. Select **Search** to run the queries. The following GIF illustrates these steps.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/searchrelevance_mds1.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Search Relevance plugin"/>

### Security analytics

> When the data source feature is enabled, you can navigate to **Security analytics** under the **OpenSearch Plugins** menu. Using detection rules as an example, you can view all connected data sources and select a specific one from the navigation bar on the upper right. By default, the detection rules from the designated default data source are displayed. However, you can select any connected data source to view its corresponding detection rules. The following GIF illustrates these steps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the data source feature is enabled, navigate to **Security analytics** under **OpenSearch Plugins**. For detection rules, view all connected data sources and select one from the upper-right navigation bar. By default, detection rules from the designated default data source are displayed. However, you can select any connected data source to view its corresponding detection rules. The following GIF illustrates these steps.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_sa_detection_rules_view.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Security analytics list page"/>

> To create a new detection rule, select the **Create detection rule** button, which opens a form. Fill in the required information and select the **Create detection rule** button. The detection rule is created within the selected data source. The following GIF illustrates these steps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To create a new detection rule, select **Create detection rule**. Fill out the form and select **Create detection rule** again. The rule will be created within the selected data source. The following GIF illustrates these steps.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_sa_detection_rules_create.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Security analytics create page"/>

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

### Alerting

> When the data source feature is enabled, you can navigate to **Alerting** under the **OpenSearch Plugins** menu and view all connected data sources. In the data source view, the default data source and its corresponding detection rules are displayed. However, you can select any connected data source to view its corresponding detection rules from the **Data sources** dropdown. The following GIF illustrates these steps using detection rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the data source feature is enabled, navigate to **Alerting** under **OpenSearch Plugins**. Here, you can view all connected data sources. By default, the primary data source and its detection rules are displayed. However, you can select any connected data source from the **Data sources** dropdown to view its corresponding detection rules. The following GIF illustrates these steps.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_monitor_view.gif" alt="Multiple data sources in Alerting list page"/>

> To create a new monitor, select the **Create monitor** button, which opens a form. Fill in the required information and select the **Create** button. The monitor is created within the selected data source.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To create a new monitor, select **Create monitor**. Fill out the form and select **Create**. The monitor is created within the selected data source.
```

> ### Feature anywhere

Reviewer 3: Is this a proper name "Feature Anywhere"? If not, what does feature anywhere mean to the user?

Reviewer 4: This is a feature allows https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/ad/dashboards-anomaly-detection/ and https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/alerting/dashboards-alerting/. It supports multi data source in 2.15. Looks like we do call it feature anywhere in the repo as project name, https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/issues/3481, do you have suggestion with a better name?

Reviewer 3: @yujin-emma Thank you for those resources. I'll add some context around Feature Anywhere.

> When the data source feature is enabled, you can navigate to **Dashboards** under the **OpenSearch Dashboards** menu. Select a dashboard from the list, select the **Option** button on the dashboard. Then, select  **Alerting** > **Associated monitors**. You should see the associated monitors for the selected dashboard. The following GIF illustrates these steps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the data source feature is enabled, you can access associated monitors for a specific dashboard through OpenSearch Dashboards. Navigate to the **Dashboards** application under the OpenSearch Dashboards menu. From the list of available dashboards, select the one you want to view associated monitors for. Once the dashboard is open, select the **Option** button located on the dashboard itself. This will reveal a set of options, including **Alerting**. Under the **Alerting** option, choose **Associated monitors**. Upon selecting this, you should see the associated monitors displayed for the currently selected dashboard. The following GIF illustrates these steps.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/mds_feature_anywhere_view_alerting.gif" alt="Multiple data sources with Feature anywhere associated monitor"/>

> To add new alerting monitor for that dashboard, select the **Option** button. Fill in the required information and select the **Create monitor** button. The alerting monitor is created within the selected data source.The following GIF illustrates these steps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To create a new alerting monitor for a dashboard, select the **Option** button. Fill out the form and select **Create**. The monitor is created within the selected data source. The following GIF illustrates these steps.
```
